Right now, when your agent visits a
website, it's basically a tourist who
doesn't speak the language of that site.
And this is the same whether you're
building lang chain agents, claude code
agents, or even new things like open
core. Basically, the agent is guessing
which buttons to press. It's scraping
HTML, perhaps using screenshots. Now, if
you've been building agents for a while,
you know exactly how painful that is.
Well, earlier this week, the Google
Chrome team has shipped an early preview
of WebM MCP. This is a whole new
standard that lets any website expose
structured tools directly to AI agents.
No more need for scraping. No more need
for thousands of screenshots. Your agent
just calls functions. In this video, I'm
going to talk about exactly how WebMCP
works, the two different APIs, why this
is set up to actually cut token costs,
and perhaps some of the problems that
this solves that people really haven't
even been talking about yet. So, if
you're building AI agents or you're
building websites and products that you
want agents to use, this literally could
be the most important thing to land in
Chrome in years. So, let me break it
down. So, it's been pretty clear for a
while that one of the biggest things you
want agents to do is to interact with
the web. And we're actually seeing this
a lot in the way that people use Open
Claw to do different kinds of research,
to go to web pages, to download them, to
take screenshots, etc. And for far too
long, the sort of two main ways that
people have done that is either through
screenshots which they pass into a
multimodal model. And then ideally the
multimodal model can tell you not only
what's on the screenshot but also where
the buttons are, where form fields are,
where text fields are, all these sorts
of things. The second way that people
have actually done this is to access the
DOM directly and access often just the
sort of raw HTML code and perhaps
JavaScript code to use that as a way to
work out what are the elements on the
page that are interactive, how would you
interact with them, etc. But really both
of these is like speaking a foreign
language to the actual website, right?
you're having to use huge amounts of
tokens, especially if you're sort of
doing the whole images only route.
You're going to be using thousands of
tokens for each image that you process.
And even if you go the HTML route,
you're also speaking a foreign language
in that you've got to translate from
basically HTML to more summarized and
simplified information for your agent so
that it can actually act on that. We
don't really care about things like
paragraph tags or different kinds of CSS
for making something look good. Yet at
the moment, a lot of that is what gets
used for agents to be able to do this.
So the idea here is actually pretty
simple. The idea is make it so that each
web page can act as an MCP and a model
can call it to get various information.
And it's kind of like the model's going
to say to the web page, hey, what's on
this page? Tell me what I should be able
to read. Tell me what I should be able
to click. Tell me what I should be able
to fill in. And this idea is not totally
new. It's been kicking around a lot last
year with both academic people sort of
proposing papers around this. But also
in the second half of last year,
Microsoft and Google got together and
actually proposed a whole idea of how
you would actually treat this, how you
could actually build something like this
so that it would give agents a much
simpler way to be able to interact with
websites but not have to totally go the
route of an API where everything has to
be an API call to a backend. This would
still allow normal users to be able to
interact with the websites. it would
just make it more efficient for agents
to interact as well. So some of the
things that were being proposed for this
sort of thing last year in Chrome were
things like script tools in Microsoft
Edge. I think they had something like
web model context. But around the end of
the third quarter last year, Microsoft
and Google got together to start putting
together this sort of spec of how this
would actually work. Now if you think
back, this was around the time that we
saw Perplexity release Comet, OpenAI
release Atlas. you know, a lot of the
ideas of web interaction were certainly
taking off. The thing that makes this
kind of different though is that the way
they've approached this, it's actually
going to be used for sort of human in
the loop first stuff and that the agent
will be able to work with the user, not
just fully autonomously. So, humans are
still going to use web pages, but we'd
like to be able to speed up and improve
the quality that they get from web pages
by being able to have those interactions
empowered with agents as well. So, at
the web AI summit last year, there was a
nice talk all about this and one of the
Googlers sort of presented how there are
three pillars to this. So the first one
being sort of context and this is like
all the data that agents need to
understand what the user is doing. So if
you're watching a video, if you're into
reading an article or something like
that, you want the agent to sort of know
not only what's on the screen, but
really you would like the agent to be
able to know sort of what has come
before this as well. So if the user were
to ask a question or ask the agent to do
something that relates to something
that's not in that current screenshot,
the agent should be able to still
understand this. The second big pillar
is the whole idea of capabilities. And
this is actions on the user's behalf. So
this is not just sort of things like
answering questions, but this is
actually doing stuff like, hey, I'm too
lazy to fill out this form. Please go
and fill out this form based on
everything that you know about me, etc.
And the third big pillar is the pillar
of coordination. So this is sort of how
do you control the flow between the user
and the agent. And a nice example of
this is what happens if you've asked
your agent to go and buy a certain brand
or type of milk and while the site has
milk for sale, it doesn't have what you
actually want. In this case, you want to
be able to easily pass back to the user
for a human in the loop kind of thing.
Now, while you're not going to find all
of this in every Chrome user and every
website straight away, the latest
version of Chrome will actually have all
of this behind a flag where you're able
to turn it on. You're able to actually
engage with this. And you got to think
that this is something that perhaps
Google's going to roll out in full at
Google Cloud Next or at Google IO in the
next few months. So, I do think this is
going to be something that's going to
move quite quickly. Okay. So an example
of how this would work is that your
particular web page would expose certain
functions. So if you had the ability for
someone to be able to do some kind of
visual search on the site, something
like that, that would also be in the UI
that would also be exposed as a function
like search products. So, the site would
basically have a registered search
products tool that would make it much
easier for your agent to actually go in
and use the search and find what it is
rather than having to sort of click
through lots of different filters,
scrolling through different pages, etc.
The other thing too is that then the
agent would actually get back structured
results. So you can imagine this sort of
one tool call replaces what could have
been dozens of interactions that would
have been needed if you were just using
a browser use kind of thing. So the way
that they've currently structured these
interactions is that they've got two
main APIs. They've got the declarative
API and the imperative API. So the
declarative API is all about standard
actions that can take your existing HTML
forms and can add things like a tool
name description so that your agent can
use that. Now if you've got pretty good
well ststructured HTML forms, it sounds
like you're probably kind of like 80% of
the way done for that already. The
second one is the imperative API. So
this is for more complex dynamic
interactions that perhaps going to
require things like JavaScript
execution. So the idea here is that this
goes beyond just forms. And here you're
going to decide okay what's going to be
the sort of schema for this. And in many
ways these are probably going to be like
defining tools that you would send to
say the open AI or anthropic API
endpoints etc. Obviously though this is
all going to be running client side in
the browser. So, while this is still
perhaps early days for this actually
rolling out to the mass public and stuff
like that, it is literally just around
the corner. This is no longer just a
debate about the specs of this. This is
now already in Chrome, even if it's
behind a flag. And if you want to get
started, you can actually join the
Chrome early preview program to
basically get more access to some of
these APIs and to what actually Google
is doing here. So, I'm sure over the
next month or two, we'll see more of
this actually roll out. And we'll
probably see a number of tools or
perhaps even things like chord skills
that allow you to take a particular
website and convert it and set it up to
actually have its own sort of web MCPS
on it. But definitely for now, if you're
looking at building things with agents,
building things with AI, this is
something that you definitely want to
have on your radar. So, check out the
links in the description and let me know
in the comments if you've got an
interesting take of where you could see
this actually going. I definitely think
this is one of the interesting things
that's not getting a lot of coverage at
the moment. Anyway, as always, I will
talk to you in the next video. Bye for
now.